New pages: DOMMatrixReadOnly.skewX/skewY/rotate (#37152)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/dommatrixreadonly/rotate/index.md

title: "DOMMatrixReadOnly: rotate() method"
short-title: rotate()
slug: Web/API/DOMMatrixReadOnly/rotate
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.DOMMatrixReadOnly.rotate
---

{{APIRef("Geometry Interfaces")}}{{AvailableInWorkers}}

The `rotate()` method of the {{domxref("DOMMatrixReadOnly")}} interface returns a new {{domxref("DOMMatrix")}} created by rotating the source matrix around each of its axes by the specified number of degrees. The original matrix is not altered.

To mutate the matrix as you rotate it, see {{domxref("DOMMatrix.rotateSelf()")}}.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
DOMMatrixReadOnly.rotate()
DOMMatrixReadOnly.rotate(rotX)
DOMMatrixReadOnly.rotate(rotX, rotY)
DOMMatrixReadOnly.rotate(rotX, rotY, rotZ)
```

### Parameters

- `rotX`
  - : A number; the x-coordinate of the vector denoting the axis of rotation. If non-zero, [`is2D`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMMatrix#is2d) is false.
- `rotY` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A number; the y-coordinate of the vector denoting the axis of rotation. If non-zero, [`is2D`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMMatrix#is2d) is false.
- `rotZ` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A number; the z-coordinate of the vector denoting the axis of rotation.

> If `rotY` and `rotZ` are both missing, `rotZ` is set to the value of `rotX`, and both `rotX` and `rotY` are `0`.

Author: ```suggestion
If only one parameter is passed, the value is the `z` coordinate, and both `x` and `y` are `0`.
```

> If `rotY` and `rotZ` are both missing, `rotZ` is set to the value of `rotX`, and both `rotX` and `rotY` are `0`.

Author: ```suggestion
If only `rotX` is passed, then `rotX` is used as the value for the z-coordinate, and the x- and -y-coordinates are both set to zero.
```

---
title: "DOMMatrixReadOnly: rotate() method"
short-title: rotate()
slug: Web/API/DOMMatrixReadOnly/rotate
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.DOMMatrixReadOnly.rotate
---

{{APIRef("Geometry Interfaces")}}{{AvailableInWorkers}}

The `rotate()` method of the {{domxref("DOMMatrixReadOnly")}} interface is a transformation method that returns a new {{domxref("DOMMatrix")}} created by rotating the source matrix around each of its axes by the specified number of degrees. The original matrix is not altered.

To mutate the matrix as you rotate it, see {{domxref("DOMMatrix.rotateSelf()")}}

## Syntax

```js-nolint
DOMMatrixReadOnly.rotate()
DOMMatrixReadOnly.rotate(rotX)
DOMMatrixReadOnly.rotate(rotX, rotY)
DOMMatrixReadOnly.rotate(rotX, rotY, rotZ)
```

### Parameters

- `rotX`
  - : A number; the x-coordinate of the vector denoting the axis of rotation
- `rotY` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A number; the y-coordinate of the vector denoting the axis of rotation.
- `rotZ` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A number; the z-coordinate of the vector denoting the axis of rotation

> If only one parameter is passed, `rotZ` is the value of `rotX`, and both `rotx` and `rotY` are `0`, and the rotation is a 2D rotation. If `rotX` and `rotY` are non-zero, the [`is_2D`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMMatrixReadOnly/is2D) property is `false`.

Reviewer: I don't think these comments are really addressed. 

> If rotY and rotZ are both missing, rotZ is set to the value of rotX, and both rotX and rotY are 0.

I think this is still confusing. What would help would be to talk about what the params are used for rather than their names. For instance:

If only `rotX` is passed, then `rotX` is used as the value for the z-coordinate, and the x- and -y-coordinates are both set to zero.

In particular it's confusing to say "rotZ is set to the value of rotX, and both rotX and rotY are 0" - does that mean rotZ is zero?
